# Goals

- [x] CRUD orders with local PostgreSQL with Prisma

## Installed NestJs

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/)

> To get started, you can either scaffold the project with the Nest CLI, or clone a starter project (both will produce the same outcome).
>
> To scaffold the project with the Nest CLI, run the following commands. This will create a new project directory, and populate the directory with the initial core Nest files and supporting modules, creating a conventional base structure for your project. Creating a new project with the Nest CLI is recommended for first-time users. We'll continue with this approach in First Steps.

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/first-steps)

> Please make sure that Node.js (version >= 16) is installed on your operating system.

```bash
npm i -g @nestjs/cli
nest new project-name
```

## Delete spec.ts

I delete the unit testing `spec.ts` for now, I test later

## Start app

> This command starts the app with the HTTP server listening on the port defined in the src/main.ts file. Once the application is running, open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000/. You should see the Hello World! message.

> To watch for changes in your files, you can run the following command to start the application:

```bash
npm run start:dev
```

## Linting & formatting

> CLI provides best effort to scaffold a reliable development workflow at scale. Thus, a generated Nest project comes with both a code linter and formatter preinstalled (respectively eslint and prettier).

I installed the following extension for the web development profile VS Code
- ESLint
- Prettier

## Update organization

I need to get the minimum feature done first
- crud orders
- crud people
- crud OrderItem

So I need 3 endpoints
**For `Order`**
1. **Create Order**: `POST /orders`
2. **Retrieve all Orders**: `GET /orders`
3. **Retrieve a single Order by ID**: `GET /orders/:id`
4. **Update an Order**: `PUT /orders/:id`
5. **Delete an Order**: `DELETE /orders/:id`

**For `OrderItem`**
1. **Add Item to Order**: `POST /orders/:orderId/items`
2. **Update Item in Order**: `PUT /orders/:orderId/items/:itemId`
3. **Remove Item from Order**: `DELETE /orders/:orderId/items/:itemId`
4. **Retrieve Items in Order**: `GET /orders/:orderId/items`

**Additional Related Endpoints**
- `GET /people`: List all buyers/recipients (for selection during order creation)
- `GET /items`: List all items (for adding to orders)

All starts from `root module`

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/modules)

> Each application has at least one module, a root module. The root module is the starting point Nest uses to build the application graph - the internal data structure Nest uses to resolve module and provider relationships and dependencies.
>
> We want to emphasize that modules are strongly recommended as an effective way to organize your components. Thus, for most applications, the resulting architecture will employ multiple modules, each encapsulating a closely related set of capabilities.

What I do is that I have 2 dir
- routes
    - hold modules for routing only
- features
    - hold modules for providers only

This is a module example

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { CatsController } from './cats.controller';
import { CatsService } from './cats.service';

@Module({
  controllers: [CatsController], // my controllers
  providers: [CatsService], // my providers
  // imports: modules that i import, i want to use their exports list
  // exports: what i export for others to use
})
export class CatsModule {}
```

Pay attention to the props

| property    | description                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| providers   | the providers that will be instantiated by the Nest injector and that may be shared at least across this module                                                                                      |
| controllers | the set of controllers defined in this module which have to be instantiated                                                                                                                          |
| imports     | the list of imported modules that export the providers which are required in this module                                                                                                             |
| exports     | the subset of providers that are provided by this module and should be available in other modules which import this module. You can use either the provider itself or just its token (provide value) |

So for mine
- routes import features
- features exports themselves to be used by routes

> To create a module using the CLI, simply execute the $ nest g module cats command.

```bash
nest g module cats
```

Then I get this in the working dir where I ran the command, an orders dir that holds the module
```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';

@Module({})
export class OrdersModule {}
```

For route, I only need controller for this module

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/controllers)

> Controllers are responsible for handling incoming requests and returning responses to the client

Basically the router, accepts HTTP req res

> The routing mechanism controls which controller receives which requests. Frequently, each controller has more than one route, and different routes can perform different actions.

One controller is to group 1 thing, like /cats/breed and /cats/color or whatever
- this is known as route path prefix (group a set of related routes, group a set of routes that manage interactions with a cat entity under the route /cats)

> In order to create a basic controller, we use classes and decorators. Decorators associate classes with required metadata and enable Nest to create a routing map (tie requests to the corresponding controllers).

Decorator adds metadata to classes, lets Nest create route map (map req to controller)

> For quickly creating a CRUD controller with the validation built-in, you may use the CLI's CRUD generator: nest g resource [name].

Plural name btw, do that inside the orders dir
- routes/orders/
    - then the inside should keep the module + controller / services

```bash
nest g resource [name]
```

This is how I organize my project, using order as an example entity

Also from here on out just copy paste the files I had in order CRUD, no need to use the CLI

```text
.
└── src/
    ├── features/
    │   └── orders/
    │       ├── dto/                     # Data Transfer Objects specific to orders
    │       │   ├── create-order.dto.ts  # Create order payload validation
    │       │   └── update-order.dto.ts  # Update order payload validation
    │       ├── orders.module.ts         # Module defining the orders service
    │       └── orders.service.ts        # Business logic for orders
    ├── routes/
    │   └── orders/
    │       ├── orders.controller.ts     # Controller for handling HTTP requests
    │       └── orders.module.ts         # Module defining the orders routing layer
    ├── app.module.ts                    # Root module for the application
    └── main.ts                          # Application entry point
```

This is how 1 feature module looks like
- module bundle providers & controller
    - this one only have service
    - export it for path to use

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersService } from './orders.service';

@Module({
  // This is all of my features
  providers: [OrdersService],
  // Export it for routes to use
  exports: [OrdersService],
})
export class OrdersFeatureModule {}
```

This is how 1 feature looks like
- holds all of the features for this 1 node

```ts
import { Injectable } from '@nestjs/common';
import { CreateOrderDto } from './dto/create-order.dto';
import { UpdateOrderDto } from './dto/update-order.dto';

@Injectable()
export class OrdersService {
  create(createOrderDto: CreateOrderDto) {
    return 'This action adds a new order';
  }

  findAll() {
    return `This action returns all orders`;
  }

  findOne(id: number) {
    return `This action returns a #${id} order`;
  }

  update(id: number, updateOrderDto: UpdateOrderDto) {
    return `This action updates a #${id} order`;
  }

  remove(id: number) {
    return `This action removes a #${id} order`;
  }
}
```

Then this is how 1 route module looks like
- module bundle providers & controller
    - this one only have controller
    - this imports features that this route needs

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersFeatureModule } from '../../features/orders/orders.module';
import { OrdersController } from './orders.controller';

@Module({
  // This is all of my routes
  controllers: [OrdersController],
  // Features that this routes need
  imports: [OrdersFeatureModule],
})
export class OrdersModule {}
```

This is how 1 route looks like
- holds all of the routes for this 1 node

```ts
import { Controller, Get, Post, Body, Patch, Param, Delete } from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersService } from '../../features/orders/orders.service';
import { CreateOrderDto } from '../../features/orders/dto/create-order.dto';
import { UpdateOrderDto } from '../../features/orders/dto/update-order.dto';

@Controller('orders')
export class OrdersController {
  // Get featues that this route needs
  constructor(private readonly ordersService: OrdersService) {}

  @Post()
  create(@Body() createOrderDto: CreateOrderDto) {
    return this.ordersService.create(createOrderDto);
  }

  @Get()
  findAll() {
    return this.ordersService.findAll();
  }

  @Get(':id')
  findOne(@Param('id') id: string) {
    return this.ordersService.findOne(+id);
  }

  @Patch(':id')
  update(@Param('id') id: string, @Body() updateOrderDto: UpdateOrderDto) {
    return this.ordersService.update(+id, updateOrderDto);
  }

  @Delete(':id')
  remove(@Param('id') id: string) {
    return this.ordersService.remove(+id);
  }
}
```

Then need to add the route module to the root module

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersModule } from './routes/orders/orders.module';

@Module({
  imports: [OrdersModule],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

Somehow the mapped types dep is not installed with the cli, not metnioned in the doc either

[Ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68145372/cannot-find-module-nestjs-core-or-its-corresponding-type-declarations)

```bash
npm install @nestjs/mapped-types
```

## Integrate Prisma

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/recipes/prisma)

> Prisma is an open-source ORM for Node.js and TypeScript. It is used as an alternative to writing plain SQL. Prisma currently supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, MongoDB and CockroachDB (Preview).

I am using PostgreSQL, I had installed PostgreSQL locally using Odin Project

> In this recipe, you'll learn how to get started with NestJS and Prisma from scratch. You are going to build a sample NestJS application with a REST API that can read and write data in a database.
>
> For the purpose of this guide, you'll use a SQLite database to save the overhead of setting up a database server. Note that you can still follow this guide, even if you're using PostgreSQL or MySQL – you'll get extra instructions for using these databases at the right places.

> Start by installing the Prisma CLI as a development dependency in your project:

```bash
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

> In the following steps, we'll be utilizing the Prisma CLI. As a best practice, it's recommended to invoke the CLI locally by prefixing it with npx:

```bash
npx prisma
```

Run this in root

> Now create your initial Prisma setup using the init command of the Prisma CLI:

```bash
npx prisma init
```

> This command creates a new prisma directory with the following contents:
>
> schema.prisma: Specifies your database connection and contains the database schema
> .env: A dotenv file, typically used to store your database credentials in a group of environment variables

From chatgpt
For most projects, placing the Prisma directory outside src (Option 1) is preferable because:
1. It maintains a clear separation between code (src) and configuration/tools (like Prisma).
2. Prisma's defaults require no additional configuration when placed at the root level.

Before moving on I need to create a database first, I am using Odin guide to do it

Moving to Odin Project

[Ref](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/nodejs-using-postgresql)

Read from the same ref on how to setup PostgreSQL locally again in case I do not have it during time of reading

This is how to create a new database locally

> Enter the PostgreSQL shell by running psql in your terminal. You can view the current dbs using the \l command. Let’s create a new db by running the following SQL statement:

Create new db, I name it the same as the backend NestJS repo `swatt-lasagna-backend`

```bash
CREATE DATABASE swatt_lasagna_backend;
```

Then connect to it

```bash
\c swatt_lasagna_backend
```

You should see this

```bash
cliffordw=# \c swatt_lasagna_backend
You are now connected to database "swatt_lasagna_backend" as user "cliffordw".
swatt_lasagna_backend=#
```

Then this is the structure of the Connection URI

> An alternative to defining the connection information is through a Connection URI. You’ll likely be using connection URIs when connecting with a hosted database service. Here’s what it would look like based on the above properties:

```js
const { Pool } = require("pg");

// Again, this should be read from an environment variable
module.exports = new Pool({
  connectionString: "postgresql://<role_name>:<role_password>@localhost:5432/top_users"
});
```

Note: I had set the role name and password from the Odin Project setup PostgreSQL setup guide

Done, I will use Prisma to make table using its CLI push from schema

Back to the NestJS doc

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/recipes/prisma)

> Your database connection is configured in the datasource block in your schema.prisma file

> Now, open up .env and adjust the DATABASE_URL environment variable to look as follows

This is how the URI supposed to look like
```text
postgresql://<role_name>:<role_password>@localhost:5432/top_users
```

But this is what I get from the prisma CLI just now that made a .env
```.env
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://johndoe:randompassword@localhost:5432/mydb?schema=public"
```

So I asked chatgpt how to check a database schema and its this
```bash
\dn
```

This is the output
```bash
swatt_lasagna_backend=# \dn
      List of schemas
  Name  |       Owner
--------+-------------------
 public | pg_database_owner
(1 row)
```

So default its public

Now that I have setup the .env

Need to setup Configuration NestJS

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/techniques/configuration)

> Applications often run in different environments. Depending on the environment, different configuration settings should be used
> For example, usually the local environment relies on specific database credentials, valid only for the local DB instance
> The production environment would use a separate set of DB credentials

I will just use 1 for this, later I will update when I host it to Railway

> Externally defined environment variables are visible inside Node.js through the process.env global. We could try to solve the problem of multiple environments by setting the environment variables separately in each environment. This can quickly get unwieldy.

> A good approach for using this technique in Nest is to create a ConfigModule that exposes a ConfigService which loads the appropriate .env file. While you may choose to write such a module yourself, for convenience Nest provides the @nestjs/config package out-of-the box. We'll cover this package in the current chapter.

> To begin using it, we first install the required dependency.

```bash
npm i --save @nestjs/config
```

> The @nestjs/config package internally uses dotenv.
> @nestjs/config requires TypeScript 4.1 or later.

> Once the installation process is complete, we can import the ConfigModule. Typically, we'll import it into the root AppModule and control its behavior using the .forRoot() static method. During this step, environment variable key/value pairs are parsed and resolved. Later, we'll see several options for accessing the ConfigService class of the ConfigModule in our other feature modules.

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { ConfigModule } from '@nestjs/config';

@Module({
  imports: [ConfigModule.forRoot()],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> The above code will load and parse a .env file from the default location (the project root directory), merge key/value pairs from the .env file with environment variables assigned to process.env, and store the result in a private structure that you can access through the ConfigService.

> The forRoot() method registers the ConfigService provider, which provides a get() method for reading these parsed/merged configuration variables.

> Since @nestjs/config relies on dotenv, it uses that package's rules for resolving conflicts in environment variable names.

> When a key exists both in the runtime environment as an environment variable (e.g., via OS shell exports like export DATABASE_USER=test) and in a .env file, the runtime environment variable takes precedence.

> A sample .env file looks something like this:

```.env
DATABASE_USER=test
DATABASE_PASSWORD=test
```

> By default, the package looks for a .env file in the root directory of the application. To specify another path for the .env file, set the envFilePath property of an (optional) options object you pass to forRoot(), as follows:

```bash
ConfigModule.forRoot({
  envFilePath: '.development.env',
});
```

No need for that now for me

Now need to setup the database table, I had already done so long ago

```prisma
model Item {
    id          String      @id @default(cuid())
    name        String
    price       Int
    orders      OrderItem[]
    createdAt   DateTime    @default(now())
    updatedAt   DateTime    @updatedAt
}

model Order {
    id                 String         @id @default(cuid())
    buyer              Person         @relation("BuyerOrders", fields: [buyerId], references: [id])
    buyerId            String
    recipient          Person         @relation("RecipientOrders", fields: [recipientId], references: [id])
    recipientId        String
    orderDate          DateTime
    deliveryDate       DateTime
    totalPurchase      Int
    deliveryMethod     DeliveryMethod @relation(fields: [deliveryMethodId], references: [id])
    deliveryMethodId   String
    shippingCost       Int
    grandTotal         Int
    payment            PaymentMethod  @relation(fields: [paymentMethodId], references: [id])
    paymentMethodId    String
    items              OrderItem[]
    status             OrderStatus    @relation(fields: [statusId], references: [id])
    statusId           String
    note               String?
    createdAt          DateTime       @default(now())
    updatedAt          DateTime       @updatedAt

    @@index([buyerId], map: "idx_buyerId")
    @@index([recipientId], map: "idx_recipientId")
    @@index([orderDate], map: "idx_orderDate")
}

model OrderItem {
    quantity   Int
    order      Order  @relation(fields: [orderId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
    orderId    String
    item       Item   @relation(fields: [itemId], references: [id])
    itemId     String

    @@id([orderId, itemId])
    @@index([itemId], map: "idx_itemId")
}

model Person {
    id               String   @id @default(cuid())
    name             String
    address          String
    phoneNumber      String
    buyerOrders      Order[]  @relation("BuyerOrders")
    recipientOrders  Order[]  @relation("RecipientOrders")
    createdAt        DateTime @default(now())
    updatedAt        DateTime @updatedAt

    @@index([name], map: "idx_name")
    @@index([phoneNumber], map: "idx_phoneNumber")
}

model PaymentMethod {
    id          String   @id @default(cuid())
    name        String   @unique
    orders      Order[]
    createdAt   DateTime @default(now())
    updatedAt   DateTime @updatedAt
}

model DeliveryMethod {
    id          String   @id @default(cuid())
    name        String   @unique
    orders      Order[]
    createdAt   DateTime @default(now())
    updatedAt   DateTime @updatedAt
}

model OrderStatus {
    id          String   @id @default(cuid())
    name        String   @unique
    orders      Order[]
    createdAt   DateTime @default(now())
    updatedAt   DateTime @updatedAt
}
```

The doc says this but I want to push instead

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev --name init
```

So I run this instead

```bash
npx prisma db push
```

[Ref](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/reference/prisma-cli-reference#db-push)

Then check the local database to see if the tables are there, made from prisma schema

This is from Odin Project again

> Verify that the table has been created by running \d. You should see the following two tables in the output (we’ve skipped some output details for brevity):

[Ref](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/nodejs-using-postgresql#lesson-overview)

Its there

```bash
swatt_lasagna_backend=# \d
              List of relations
 Schema |      Name      | Type  |   Owner
--------+----------------+-------+-----------
 public | DeliveryMethod | table | cliffordw
 public | Item           | table | cliffordw
 public | Order          | table | cliffordw
 public | OrderItem      | table | cliffordw
 public | OrderStatus    | table | cliffordw
 public | PaymentMethod  | table | cliffordw
 public | Person         | table | cliffordw
(7 rows)

swatt_lasagna_backend=#
```

Then need to make client, client to be used to seed after this

> Prisma Client is a type-safe database client that's generated from your Prisma model definition. Because of this approach, Prisma Client can expose CRUD operations that are tailored specifically to your models.

> To install Prisma Client in your project, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install @prisma/client
```

Note: whenever you push or migrate schema, the client is auto generated

But this is how you do it manually just in case, it updates the client with the schema

```bash
prisma generate
```

I need to seed items and people in order to be able to test order crud

I will refer to how to do that from the blog post

[Ref](https://www.prisma.io/blog/nestjs-prisma-rest-api-7D056s1BmOL0#set-up-prisma)

> Currently, the database is empty. So you will create a seed script that will populate the database with some dummy data.

> Firstly, create a seed file called prisma/seed.ts. This file will contain the dummy data and queries needed to seed your database.

Create this inside the prisma dir
```bash
touch prisma/seed.ts
```

This is the blog seed script
```ts
// prisma/seed.ts

import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client';

// initialize Prisma Client
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

async function main() {
  // create two dummy articles
  const post1 = await prisma.article.upsert({
    where: { title: 'Prisma Adds Support for MongoDB' },
    update: {},
    create: {
      title: 'Prisma Adds Support for MongoDB',
      body: 'Support for MongoDB has been one of the most requested features since the initial release of...',
      description:
        "We are excited to share that today's Prisma ORM release adds stable support for MongoDB!",
      published: false,
    },
  });

  const post2 = await prisma.article.upsert({
    where: { title: "What's new in Prisma? (Q1/22)" },
    update: {},
    create: {
      title: "What's new in Prisma? (Q1/22)",
      body: 'Our engineers have been working hard, issuing new releases with many improvements...',
      description:
        'Learn about everything in the Prisma ecosystem and community from January to March 2022.',
      published: true,
    },
  });

  console.log({ post1, post2 });
}

// execute the main function
main()
  .catch((e) => {
    console.error(e);
    process.exit(1);
  })
  .finally(async () => {
    // close Prisma Client at the end
    await prisma.$disconnect();
  });
```

I edit it to seed mine

```ts
// prisma/seed.ts

import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client';

// initialize Prisma Client
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

async function main() {
  // seed item
  const items = [
    { name: 'Lasagna Mini', price: 65000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Small', price: 95000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Medium', price: 180000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Long', price: 295000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Xtra Medium', price: 395000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Family', price: 495000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Xtra Family', price: 555000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Party Medium', price: 1350000 },
    { name: 'Lasagna Party Large', price: 2750000 },

    { name: 'Macaroni Mini', price: 50000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Small', price: 85000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Oval', price: 110000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Medium', price: 165000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Long', price: 250000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Xtra Medium', price: 335000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Family', price: 380000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Xtra Family', price: 445000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Party Medium', price: 1100000 },
    { name: 'Macaroni Party Large', price: 2200000 },

    { name: 'Marmer Cake 1 Loyang Bulat', price: 335000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 1 Loyang Dipotong', price: 335000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 1 Slice', price: 22000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 3 Slice', price: 63000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 6 Slice', price: 125000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 9 Slice', price: 185000 },
    { name: 'Marmer Cake 12 Slice', price: 245000 },

    { name: 'Nastar Bulat', price: 185000 },
    { name: 'Nastar Kotak', price: 135000 },

    { name: 'Kue Keju Bulat', price: 195000 },
    { name: 'Kue Keju Kotak', price: 145000 },

    { name: 'Lidah Kucing Bulat', price: 150000 },
    { name: 'Lidah Kucing Kotak', price: 120000 },

    { name: 'Sagu Keju Bulat', price: 150000 },
    { name: 'Sagu Keju Kotak', price: 120000 },

    { name: 'Almond Keju Bulat', price: 185000 },
    { name: 'Almond Keju Kotak', price: 135000 },

    { name: 'Cheese Stick Kotak', price: 160000 },

    { name: 'Bolu Peuyeum 1 Slice', price: 11000 },
    { name: 'Bolu Peuyeum 5 Slice', price: 50000 },
    { name: 'Bolu Peuyeum 12 Slice', price: 110000 },
    { name: 'Bolu Peuyeum 1 Loyang Utuh', price: 140000 },

    { name: 'Roti Baso', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Roti Keju', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Roti Coklat', price: 15000 },

    { name: 'Pudding 1 Cup', price: 30000 },
    { name: 'Pudding 4 Cup ', price: 115000 },
    { name: 'Pudding 6 Cup', price: 172500 },

    { name: 'Box Hampers Box K3', price: 75000 },
    { name: 'Box Hampers Box K4', price: 95000 },
    { name: 'Box Hampers Box B3', price: 85000 },
    { name: 'Box Hampers Box B4', price: 95000 },

    { name: 'Tas Kain MC', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Tas Kain K3', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Tas Kain K4', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Tas Kain B3', price: 15000 },
    { name: 'Tas Kain B4', price: 15000 },

    { name: 'Hampers Marmer Cake', price: 350000 },
  ];
  const createdItems = await Promise.all(
    items.map((item) => prisma.item.create({ data: item })),
  );
  console.log('Seeded item:', createdItems);

  // seed paymentMethod
  const deliveryMethods = [
    { name: 'Pickup' },
    { name: 'Delivery' },
    { name: 'Gojek' },
    { name: 'Citytran' },
    { name: 'Paxel' },
    { name: 'Daytrans' },
    { name: 'Baraya' },
    { name: 'Lintas' },
    { name: 'Bineka' },
    { name: 'Jne' },
  ];
  const createdDeliveryMethods = await Promise.all(
    deliveryMethods.map((deliveryMethod) =>
      prisma.deliveryMethod.create({ data: deliveryMethod }),
    ),
  );
  console.log('Seeded deliveryMethod:', createdDeliveryMethods);

  // seed paymentMethod
  const paymentMethods = [
    { name: 'Tunai' },
    { name: 'Kartu Kredit' },
    { name: 'Qr' },
    { name: 'Transfer' },
  ];
  const createdPaymentMethods = await Promise.all(
    paymentMethods.map((paymentMethod) =>
      prisma.paymentMethod.create({ data: paymentMethod }),
    ),
  );
  console.log('Seeded paymentMethod:', createdPaymentMethods);

  // seed persons
  const persons = [
    {
      name: 'Agus Prabowo',
      address: 'Jl. Merdeka No. 45, Jakarta Pusat, DKI Jakarta',
      phoneNumber: '+62 21 555-1234',
    },
    {
      name: 'Siti Nurhaliza',
      address: 'Jl. Raya Bogor KM 25, Depok, Jawa Barat',
      phoneNumber: '+62 22 655-7890',
    },
    {
      name: 'Budi Santoso',
      address: 'Jl. Sukajadi No. 10, Bandung, Jawa Barat',
      phoneNumber: '+62 22 645-2345',
    },
    {
      name: 'Rina Anggraeni',
      address: 'Jl. Dewi Sartika No. 12, Surabaya, Jawa Timur',
      phoneNumber: '+62 31 555-6789',
    },
    {
      name: 'Joko Widodo',
      address: 'Jl. Sudirman No. 30, Semarang, Jawa Tengah',
      phoneNumber: '+62 24 555-7890',
    },
  ];
  const createdPersons = await Promise.all(
    persons.map((person) => prisma.person.create({ data: person })),
  );
  console.log('Seeded person:', createdPersons);

  // seed order status
  const orderStatuses = [
    { name: 'Downpayment' },
    { name: 'Belum bayar' },
    { name: 'Lunas' },
  ];
  const createdOrderStatuses = await Promise.all(
    orderStatuses.map((orderStatus) =>
      prisma.orderStatus.create({ data: orderStatus }),
    ),
  );
  console.log('Seeded orderStatus:', createdOrderStatuses);
}

// execute the main function
main()
  .catch((e) => {
    console.error(e);
    process.exit(1);
  })
  .finally(async () => {
    // close Prisma Client at the end
    await prisma.$disconnect();
  });

```

> You need to tell Prisma what script to execute when running the seeding command. You can do this by adding the prisma.seed key to the end of your package.json file:

```json
// package.json

// ...
  "scripts": {
    // ...
  },
  "dependencies": {
    // ...
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    // ...
  },
  "jest": {
    // ...
  },
  "prisma": {
    "seed": "ts-node prisma/seed.ts"
  }
```

> The seed command will execute the prisma/seed.ts script that you previously defined. This command should work automatically because ts-node is already installed as a dev dependency in your package.json.

> Execute seeding with the following command:

```bash
npx prisma db seed
```

Then check the local db

```bash
swatt_lasagna_backend=# SELECT * FROM "DeliveryMethod";
            id             |   name   |        createdAt        |        updatedAt
---------------------------+----------+-------------------------+-------------------------
 cm4vrtxzt001lywwn5lry2tuq | Delivery | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001tywwnxfvseqhs | Baraya   | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001mywwnekrriwto | Pickup   | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001sywwn42zvpyoj | Lintas   | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001rywwnzuoudilh | Bineka   | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001nywwnpvx5hpsk | Gojek    | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001uywwnkzy99rp0 | Jne      | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001oywwnvlgmsak7 | Citytran | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001qywwnpqk2835j | Paxel    | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
 cm4vrtxzt001pywwn4ouo7amk | Daytrans | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625 | 2024-12-19 20:25:37.625
(10 rows)

swatt_lasagna_backend=#
```

Now need to make prisma module, a feature, a database provider

Using NestJS doc again here

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/recipes/prisma)

```ts
import { Injectable, OnModuleInit } from '@nestjs/common';
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client';

@Injectable()
export class PrismaService extends PrismaClient implements OnModuleInit {
  async onModuleInit() {
    await this.$connect();
  }
}
```

Then for me I want to make that service be global since almost all feature are going to need it

This is the NestJS doc on making global module

[Ref](https://docs.nestjs.com/modules#global-modules)

> If you have to import the same set of modules everywhere, it can get tedious

> When you want to provide a set of providers which should be available everywhere out-of-the-box (e.g., helpers, database connections, etc.), make the module global with the @Global() decorator.

> The @Global() decorator makes the module global-scoped. Global modules should be registered only once, generally by the root or core module. In the above example, the CatsService provider will be ubiquitous, and modules that wish to inject the service will not need to import the CatsModule in their imports array.

```ts
import { Module, Global } from '@nestjs/common';
import { CatsController } from './cats.controller';
import { CatsService } from './cats.service';

@Global()
@Module({
  controllers: [CatsController],
  providers: [CatsService],
  exports: [CatsService],
})
export class CatsModule {}
```

Then need to inject this global to module root

```ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersRouteModule } from './routes/orders/orders.module';
import { ConfigModule } from '@nestjs/config';
import { PrismaClientFeatureModule } from './features/prisma_client/prisma_client.module';

@Module({
  imports: [
    ConfigModule.forRoot(),
    PrismaClientFeatureModule,
    OrdersRouteModule,
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

Then now anyone can get the service on immediate import, in service or module

Okay now that the local database has records, can work on the order crud

Then update the service

```ts
import { Injectable } from '@nestjs/common';
import { PrismaClientService } from '../prisma_client/prisma_client.service';
import { Order, Prisma } from '@prisma/client';

@Injectable()
export class OrdersService {
  constructor(private prisma: PrismaClientService) {}

  // Create a new order
  async create(data: Prisma.OrderCreateInput): Promise<Order> {
    return this.prisma.order.create({
      data,
    });
  }

  // Find all orders
  async findAll(params: {
    skip?: number;
    take?: number;
    cursor?: Prisma.OrderWhereUniqueInput;
    where?: Prisma.OrderWhereInput;
    orderBy?: Prisma.OrderOrderByWithRelationInput;
  }): Promise<Order[]> {
    const { skip, take, cursor, where, orderBy } = params;
    return this.prisma.order.findMany({
      skip,
      take,
      cursor,
      where,
      orderBy,
    });
  }

  // Find one order by ID
  async findOne(where: Prisma.OrderWhereUniqueInput): Promise<Order | null> {
    return this.prisma.order.findUnique({
      where,
    });
  }

  // Update an existing order
  async update(params: {
    where: Prisma.OrderWhereUniqueInput;
    data: Prisma.OrderUpdateInput;
  }): Promise<Order> {
    const { where, data } = params;
    return this.prisma.order.update({
      where,
      data,
    });
  }

  // Remove an order by ID
  async remove(where: Prisma.OrderWhereUniqueInput): Promise<Order> {
    return this.prisma.order.delete({
      where,
    });
  }
}
```

And update my controller

```ts
import {
  Controller,
  Get,
  Post,
  Body,
  Patch,
  Param,
  Delete,
} from '@nestjs/common';
import { OrdersService } from '../../features/orders/orders.service';
import { Order, Prisma } from '@prisma/client';

@Controller('orders')
export class OrdersController {
  constructor(private readonly ordersService: OrdersService) {}

  @Post()
  create(@Body() createOrderData: Prisma.OrderCreateInput): Promise<Order> {
    return this.ordersService.create(createOrderData);
  }

  @Get()
  findAll(): Promise<Order[]> {
    return this.ordersService.findAll({});
  }

  @Get(':id')
  findOne(@Param('id') id: string): Promise<Order | null> {
    return this.ordersService.findOne({ id });
  }

  @Patch(':id')
  update(
    @Param('id') id: string,
    @Body() updateOrderData: Prisma.OrderUpdateInput,
  ): Promise<Order> {
    return this.ordersService.update({
      where: { id },
      data: updateOrderData,
    });
  }

  @Delete(':id')
  remove(@Param('id') id: string): Promise<Order> {
    return this.ordersService.remove({ id });
  }
}
```

Now use online Postman to see if I can CRUD

Here are some FK needed, I get this from local database PostgreSQL query

buyerId: cm4vrtxzy0022ywwnp3khu5vh
recipientId: cm4vrtxzy0020ywwn4x4in5sa
deliveryMethodId: cm4vrtxzt001lywwn5lry2tuq
paymentMethodId: cm4vrtxzw001xywwnh6kkm5hs
statusId: cm4vrty020024ywwn97tb89kc

- [x] POST orders
http://localhost:3000/orders
```json
{
  "buyerId": "cm4vrtxzy0022ywwnp3khu5vh",
  "recipientId": "cm4vrtxzy0020ywwn4x4in5sa",
  "deliveryMethodId": "cm4vrtxzt001lywwn5lry2tuq",
  "paymentMethodId": "cm4vrtxzw001xywwnh6kkm5hs",
  "statusId": "cm4vrty020024ywwn97tb89kc",
  "orderDate": "2024-12-20T00:00:00Z",
  "deliveryDate": "2024-12-25T00:00:00Z",
  "totalPurchase": 200.0,
  "shippingCost": 20.0,
  "grandTotal": 220.0,
  "note": "Please handle with care."
}
```
- [x] GET orders
- [x] GET orders/cm4vtgf180003ywl54lv8aad1
- [x] PATCH orders/cm4vtgf180003ywl54lv8aad1
- [x] DELETE orders/cm4vtgf180003ywl54lv8aad1
